Document export subcommand (#1875)
VirtusLab/scala-cli: website/docs/commands/export.md

---
title: Export ⚡️
sidebar_position: 27
---

> Export outputs information about current project to a format used by external build tools such as SBT or Mill.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `export` sub-command outputs information about the current project to a format used by external build tools such as SBT or Mill.
```

> Additionally the command supports JSON format for custom analysis of projects.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Additionally the command supports the JSON format for custom analysis of projects.
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

:::caution
The `export` sub-command is restricted and requires setting the `--power` option to be used.
You can pass it explicitly or set it globally by running:

    scala-cli config power true
:::
```

The project configuration is read both from information specified in source files

> as well as options passed to the `export` command

Reviewer: ```suggestion
as well as options passed to the `export` sub-command
```

Let's take a simple one-file project as an example:
```scala title=Hello.scala
//> using scala "3.1.3"
//> using option "-Xasync"
//> using dep "com.lihaoyi::os-lib:0.9.0"

object Hello {
  def main(args: Array[String]): Unit =
    println(os.pwd)
}
```

# Exporting to SBT:

> ```bash ignore
> scala-cli export Hello.scala --sbt
> ```

Reviewer: ````suggestion
```bash
scala-cli --power export Hello.scala --sbt
```
````
IMO totally worth it to run this on the CI

Note that `--sbt` is not required here since it's the default.

The result is a sbt-compliant project created in the `dest/` directory:

```
dest
├── project
│   └── build.properties
├── src
│   └── main
│       └── scala
│           └── Hello.scala
└── build.sbt
```

All the project's configuration resides now in `dest/build.sbt`:

```scala title=dest/build.sbt
scalaVersion := "3.1.3"

scalacOptions ++= Seq("-Xasync")

libraryDependencies += "com.lihaoyi" %% "os-lib" % "0.9.0" 

libraryDependencies += "com.lihaoyi" %% "os-lib" % "0.9.0" % Test

```

> To further configure the new SBT project you can pass options to the `export` command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To further configure the new SBT project you can pass options to the `export` sub-command:
```

- `setting` - extra SBT settings like XXXXX

> - `sbtVersion` - version of SBT used for the export, default is 1.6.1

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `sbtVersion` - version of SBT used for the export, defaulting to the newest used by Scala CLI
```
`1.6.1` is waaaay old, we should keep this up-to-date... no point putting a particular version in the doc, either

# Exporting to Mill:

> ```bash ignore
> scala-cli export Hello.scala --mill
> ```

Reviewer: ````suggestion
```bash
scala-cli --power export Hello.scala --mill
```
````

> Now the `--mill` option is required.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Mill is not the default `export` format, so passing the `--mill` option is required.
```

The results are again created in the `dest/` directory:

```
dest
├── project
│   └── src
│       └── Hello.scala
├── .mill-version
├── build.sc
├── mill
└── mill.bat
```

And all the project's configuration resides now in `dest/build.sc`:

```scala title=dest/build.sc
import mill._
import mill.scalalib._
object project extends ScalaModule {
  def scalaVersion = "3.1.3"
  def scalacOptions = super.scalacOptions() ++ Seq("-Xasync")
  def ivyDeps = super.ivyDeps() ++ Seq(
    ivy"com.lihaoyi::os-lib:0.9.0"
  )

  object test extends Tests {
    def ivyDeps = super.ivyDeps() ++ Seq(
      ivy"com.lihaoyi::os-lib:0.9.0"
    )
  }
}

```

The script files `mill` and `mill.bat` are mill wrappers fetched from [lefou/millw repository](https://github.com/lefou/millw/tree/166bcdf5741de8569e0630e18c3b2ef7e252cd96).

> To change the build tool version used override the contents of `dest/.mill-version`, default is 0.10.10.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To change the build tool version used override the contents of `dest/.mill-version`.
```
Again, let's not mention the version explicitly in the doc

# Exporting to JSON:

> For exporting information into a more readable format use the `--json` flag.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To export project information in a human-comprehensible format. use the `--json` flag.
```

> ```bash ignore
> scala-cli export Hello.scala --json
> ```

Reviewer: ````suggestion
```bash
scala-cli --power export Hello.scala --json
```
````

The result is the `dest/export.json` file:

```json title=dest/export.json
{
 "scalaVersion": "3.1.3",
 "platform": "JVM",
 "scopes": {
  "main": {
   "sources": [
    "Foo.scala"
   ],
   "scalacOptions": [
    "-Xasync"
   ],
   "dependencies": [
    {
     "groupId": "com.lihaoyi",
     "artifactId": {
      "name": "os-lib",
      "fullName": "os-lib_3"
     },
     "version": "0.9.0"
    }
   ],
   "resolvers": [
    "https://repo1.maven.org/maven2",
    "ivy:file:///Users/mgajek/Library/Caches/ScalaCli/local-repo/v0.1.20-111-648755-DIRTY2ba64fdc//[organisation]/[module]/(scala_[scalaVersion]/)(sbt_[sbtVersion]/)[revision]/[type]s/[artifact](-[classifier]).[ext]",
    "ivy:file:/Users/mgajek/.ivy2/local/[organisation]/[module]/(scala_[scalaVersion]/)(sbt_[sbtVersion]/)[revision]/[type]s/[artifact](-[classifier]).[ext]"
   ]
  }
 }
}
```

> Note that the path to the output directory (`dest` by default) can be overriden with `output` option.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that the path to the output directory (`dest` by default) can be overriden with the `--output` option.
```

---
title: Export ⚡️
sidebar_position: 27
---

> The `export` sub-command outputs information about the current project to a format used by external build tools such as SBT or Mill.
> Additionally the command supports the JSON format for custom analysis of projects.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `export` sub-command converts a Scala CLI project into an SBT or Mill project configuration. When your simple project starts to grow and you need support for modules, it would be useful to use a build tool such as SBT or Mill.
Additionally the `export` sub-command supports the JSON format for custom analysis of projects.
```
